## About me

I am a political science PhD student at the <a href="https://politicalscience.unc.edu/">University of North Carolina (Chapel Hill)</a> studying political economy from both an international (IPE) and comparative (CPE) perspective. Broadly, I am interested in the structural relationships and interactions between governments and finance. My dissertation research explores the political economic origins of government banks (aka, state-owned banks or public banks). As part of this work I am constructing a novel dataset of incorporation dates for government banks beginning as early as the 15th century to trace the emergence and evolution of government banks alongside that of the modern nation-state system. In additional research projects, I explore the role of regime type in financial integration and financial crisis diffusion and country blacklisting as a mode of anti-money laundering regulation.  

I have teaching experience in both international relations and quantitative methods. I also work for the <a href="https://odum.unc.edu/">Odum Institute</a> as a verifier for author submitted R and Stata code for manuscripts accepted for publication in the *American Journal of Political Science* and *State Politics and Policy Quarterly*. 

My contact information can be found <a href="https://politicalscience.unc.edu/staff/devin-case-ruchala/">here</a>

## Research

Devin Case-Ruchala. "Bridging the Domestic-System Level Divide: Regime Embeddedness in Global Investment Flows." Presented at the Political Networks Conference, Durham, NC, May 2019 and accepted for presentation at the Midwest Political Science Association Conference, April 2020 (cancelled due to covid-19). To be presented at the Annual Conference of the American Political Science Association, San Francisco, CA, September, 2020

**Abstract:** Are global financial investment flows patterned by regime type and what consequences does this entail for causal inference? Employing a latent space network regression model using IMF Coordinated Portfolio Investment Survey (CPIS) data beginning in 2001, I find that the network of cross-border portfolio asset investments is systematically patterned by co-democracy pairs. I argue this demonstrates domestic institutions inhere in system-level structures, indicating that regime type is an important systematic feature of global financial flows and thus investments flows cannot be considered independent for inferential purposes. I provide one test of the inferential consequences of regime-patterned interdependence by examining its effect on increased financial crisis susceptibility and diffusion. I find that the prevalence of crises among democracies, at least since the turn of the twenty-first century, results in part from these co-democracy investment relationships. My findings point to the need to consider the interdependence between domestic and system-level factors and in particular the interdependence between regime type and global financial flows. 

Devin Case-Ruchala and Mark Nance. "Does blacklisting work? Re-evaluating the market hypothesis in the global anti-money laundering regime". Manuscript in progress.

**Abstract:** To what extent do global investors react to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) money laundering blacklist? Blacklisting remains a primary feature and concern of the anti-money laundering (AML) regime, but evidence of its impact on cross-border investment is mixed and largely anecdotal. We re-examine previous studies showing an effect of blacklisting. Using an expanded database and different operationalizations of cross-border investment, we argue that there is little evidence in the broader body of data to support this “market mechanism” understanding of blacklisting. Drawing on expert interviews with compliance officials, we trace the process by which blacklisting affects financial institutions’ level of investment in listed countries to develop a more precisely specified theory of blacklisting's impact. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of our research for future studies aiming to operationalize and test the effect of blacklisting on AML compliance and for questions of institutional design with the AML regime.

Devin Case-Ruchala. "State-Bank Nexus: Political Economy of State Bank Formation". Dissertation research in progress.

**Abstract:** I explore the political economic conditions under which government banks first emerged and have developed and diffused over time. As systematic analysis of government bank origination is currently lacking, to facilitate this research I am constructing a novel dataset of incorporation dates for government banks beginning as early as the 15th century to trace the emergence and evolution of government banks alongside that of the modern nation-state system. Contrary to the expectations of much of the literature on government ownership, government bank formation finds its origins not in the most financially repressed autocracies but at the heart of nascent regimes of capital accumulation. Subsequent development of government banks has varied considerably across and within regime type and development status up through the twenty-first century.

## Teaching

+ Lab Instructor for POLI 783: Probability and Statistics (Fall 2019 & 2020)
+ Teaching Assistant for POLI 150: Intro to World Politics (Fall 2017, Spring 2018 & 2019) 
